---
title: "v5.5.0 release notes"
description: "The detailed release notes for v5.5.0"
prev:
  text: 'v5.4.3'
  link: '/changelog/v5.4.3'
next: false
---

# v5.5.0 release notes

- Static file serving (`router.Static()`)
	- Now rejects paths containing `\`, `//` with `404 Not Found`.
	- Now rejects non-empty paths that don't start with a slash. An empty path will still return `index.html` like before.
	- Now rejects paths containing a `.`, `..` or empty segment.
	- These changes fix a vulnerability when using `osfs.FS` as the file system for `router.Static()`: files outside of the base path of the file system were accessible to the clients if they requested a path containing `..`.
	- For the `Content-Disposition` header, the actual path is now used to get the name of the file instead of the raw input. This solves the issue of an invalid header value returned when the returned file is `index.html`.
- In `response.File()` and `response.Download()`, the file is now opened only once instead of thrice.
- `fsutil` changes:
	- Added `fsutil.DetectContentType()`, which sniffs directly from a reader instead of a file name.
	- Added `fsutil.DetectContentTypeByExtension()` for content type detection fallback.
	- Expanded the list of known file extensions for content type detection.
- Added `testutil.Session()`, a new testing utility used to mock the `session.Session` interface. This implementation is designed to provide a realistic, observable transaction system and help identify incorrect usage. 