---
title: "v5.6.0 release notes"
description: "The detailed release notes for v5.6.0"
editLink: false
prev:
  text: 'v5.5.6'
  link: '/changelog/v5.5.6'
next:
  text: 'v5.6.1'
  link: '/changelog/v5.6.1'
---

# v5.6.0 release notes

## typeutil.Undefined improvements

With the introduction of the json `omitzero` tag in [Go 1.24](https://tip.golang.org/doc/go1.24), the `typeutil.Undefined` type has been improved to support json marshaling and SQL scanning. If used in combination with the `omitzero` tag, the marshaling behavior will now be as expected for a non-present field. This means the type can now be used in models and response DTOs to selectively make fields visible or not in a response.

- Added the `Set` and `Unset` convenience methods.
- Improved documentation.
- Handle more cases in the `sql.Scanner` implementation to support `Undefined[T]`, `*Undefined[T]`, `T` or `*T` values as input.
- `typeutil.Undefined` now implements `json.Marshaler`. Only the `Value` is marshaled as opposed to previously where the entire struct was marshaled. 

## Validation

### Bug fixes

- Fixed incorrect validation order when using composition for array elements.
- Repeated paths in a rule set are not allowed anymore and will result in a panic. This incorrect usage of `RuleSet` could lead to buggy behavior.
- Fixed "illegal syntax" error when using ruleset composition for an array of objects.

### New features

- Added the `Init()` method to the `validation.Validator` interface.
	- This allows initializing validators in unit tests.
	- This method can be overridden by developers in custom validators in case some additional custom values must be defined at initialization.
	- This change doesn't require any change in existing code-bases as the new method is already implemented by `BaseValidator`.
- Added `validation.WithMessage()`, which overrides the language entry used to render the error message of a validator.
	- Original placeholders returned by the validator are still used to render the message.
	- Type-dependent and "element" suffixes are not added when the message is overridden.
- Added `validation.OnlyIf()` validator, which executes a validator only if a condition is met. It can be useful for conditional validation.

## Miscellaneous

- Upgraded `github.com/golang-jwt/jwt` to `github.com/golang-jwt/jwt/v5` so the `auth.JWTService` can benefit from the latest features and security. This is not a breaking change but you will need to update your import path if you use the `auth.JWTController.SigningMethod` field.
- On successful authentication, the user is now injected in the request's `context.Context`.
	- The user can be retrieved from the context using the new function `auth.UserFromContext()`.